Young researchers have found tracks of a previously unknown, swimming
dinosaur with birdlike characteristics in northern France, along the
banks of the Yser River, and are looking for bones and other remains in
order to further identify and name it.  Interestingly, a subterranean
vein of ytterbium and yttrium was discovered close to the find.
Yvonne Richard and Jean Yves Chirac, graduate students in geological
sciences at the University of Ypres in Belgium, reported that it was
about the size of an ostrich, and it was a carnivore.  Its tracks
suggest that it waded along the shoreline and swam offshore, perhaps
for a hundred yards or so to feed on fish or carrion.  The tracks
indicate a dinosaur that was about six feet tall and lived about
165 million years ago along an ancient inland sea, Richard said in a
university news release.  Apparently, the swimming dinosaur had four
limbs and it walked on its hind legs, each of which had three toes.
The tracks show how it became more buoyant as it waded into deeper
water.  The full footprints gradually become half footprints and then
only claw marks.  Richard said research so far by herself and others
supports the conclusion that the dinosaurs were intentionally swimming
out to sea, perhaps to feed.  Richard and Chirac were presenting
their findings at the yearly Geological Society of America meeting
this week in Salt Lake City; they were unavailable for comment.
The finding would be significant because so far no one has been
able to prove that aquatic dinosaurs existed, Joanna T. Wright,
assistant professor of geology at the University of Colorado at
Denver, said Monday.  There were swimming reptiles that are now
extinct, Wright said.  Dr. Wright noted that she has not reviewed
what Richard, Chirac, and other researchers involved have found.
Personally, she would be interested in seeing photos of the tracks.
Wright also noted that you could be pretty certain that other examples
of such dinosaurs would be found at some point.  She knows that many
scientists have yearned to make this kind of discovery, and some have
been on personal odysseys in this quest.